# Player feature evolution
All players have features that evolve throughout time. Yougest players evolve quicker than older ones. Each player have their specific theorical evolution curves, that specify the maximum possible evolution. According to events in their career (eg. injury), they may not evolve at all for a short period of time. When they play a lot of game, they improve. Trainings can help them improve specific skills (header, finishing, defense, etc.).


## The phases of the evolution process
The evolution is a never ending process, the player is always evolving (ie. improving their feature ratings during their young years) until reaching a climax, then they lose ratings. Roughly speaking, it is divided into three phases:
- Phase 1 - ascendent phase: the player improves his feature ratings.
- Phase 2 - stagnating phase: the climax is reached, the player cannot improve his skills anymore. He still gains some experience though.
- Phase 3 - descendent phase: the player is getting older and loses mainly his physical abilities (stamina, speed, agility).

Each phase has a random duration in years and corresponds to a specific age range (eg. from age 14 to 28 (duration of 14yrs.) => the player will improve its feature ratings by N points theorically).
The phase duration is comprised within a range between 8 to 16yrs.

## Different types of evolution
Each player has a specific evolution curve, which can be one of the following :
- slow evolution : the player keeps evolving, improving their rating slowly.
- fast evolution : the player improves quickly his skills, but reaches the climax faster (resembles a logarithmic curve).
- logarithmic-typed curve : progression is quick at the start, keeping improving slower.
- exponential-typed curve : progression is higher and higher.


## evolution curve
curve is based upon the following formula : y = x^a + b
a preview is available (here)[https://www.desmos.com/calculator/u2qz73ufju]